Adds geo-bounding box query documentation (#2134)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/query-dsl/geo-bounding-box.md

            "right": 41            
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Request fields

Geo-bounding box queries accept the following fields.

Field | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- 
_name | String | The name of the filter. Optional.
validation_method | String | The validation method. Valid values are `IGNORE_MALFORMED` (accept geopoints with invalid coordinates), `COERCE` (try to coerce  coordinates to valid values), and `STRICT` (return an error when coordinates are invalid). Default is `STRICT`.
type | String | Specifies how to execute the filter. Valid values are `indexed` (index  the filter) and `memory` (execute the filter in memory). Default is `memory`.
ignore_unmapped | Boolean | Specifies whether to ignore an unmapped field. If set to `true`, the query does not return any documents that have an unmapped field. If set to `false`, an exception is thrown when the field is unmapped. Default is `false`.

## Accepted formats

You can specify coordinates of the bounding box vertices in any [format]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/supported-field-types/geo-point#formats) that geopoint accepts.  

### Using geohash to specify the bounding box

> If you use a geohash to specify the bounding box, the geohash is treated as a rectangle. The upper left vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the upper left vertex of the `top_left` geohash, and the lower right vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the lower right vertex of the `bottom_right` geohash. To specify the bounding box that covers the whole area of a geohash, provide that geohash as both `top_left` and `bottom_right` parameters of the bounding box.

Reviewer: Shall we add an example for geo_hash?

Author: Added two examples in this section.

---
layout: default
title: Geo-bounding box queries
parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 55
---

# Geo-bounding box queries

To search for documents that contain [geopoint]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/supported-field-types/geo-point) fields, use a geo-bounding box query. The geo-bounding box query returns documents whose geopoints are within the bounding box specified in the query. A document with multiple geopoints matches the query if at least one geopoint is within the bounding box.

## Example

You can use a geo-bounding box query to search for documents that contain geopoints. 

> Create a mapping with the `point` field is mapped as `geo_point`:

Reviewer 2: "Create a mapping where the `point` field is mapped as `geo_point`:"
Or,
"Create a mapping with the `point` field mapped as `geo_point`:"

```json
PUT testindex1
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "point": {
        "type": "geo_point"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Index three geopoints as objects with latitudes and longitudes:

```json
PUT testindex1/_doc/1
{
  "point": { 
    "lat": 74.00,
    "lon": 40.71
  }
}

PUT testindex1/_doc/2
{
  "point": { 
    "lat": 72.64,
    "lon": 22.62
  } 
}

PUT testindex1/_doc/3
{
  "point": { 
    "lat": 75.00,
    "lon": 28.00
  }
}
```

> Search for all documents and filter those documents whose points lie within the rectangle defined in the query:

Reviewer 3: Could "those" be "the"?

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "filter": {
        "geo_bounding_box": {
          "point": {
            "top_left": {
              "lat": 75,
              "lon": 28
            },
            "bottom_right": {
              "lat": 73,
              "lon": 41
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The response contains the matching document:

```json
{
  "took" : 20,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "testindex1",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "point" : {
            "lat" : 74.0,
            "lon" : 40.71
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> The preceding response does not include document 3 with a geopoint of `"lat": 75.00, "lon": 28.00` because of the geopoint's limited [precision](#precision).

Reviewer 2: Do you think it's worthwhile adding "... include document 3 (`_doc/3`) with a geopoint of ..." ?
Or, even just say "document #3"
It may not be necessary. But it took me a second to understand what that referred to.

Author: I'll change to "the document with a geopoint...". The id is not too relevant.

{: .note}

## Precision

> Geopoint coordinates are always rounded down at index time. At query time, the bounding box upper boundaries are rounded down, and the lower boundaries are rounded up. Therefore, the documents with geopoints that lie on the lower and left edges of the bounding box might not be included in the results due to rounding error. On the other hand, geopoints that lie on the upper and right edges of the bounding box might be included in the results even though they are outside the boundaries. The rounding error is less than 4.20 &times; 10<sup>&minus;8</sup> degrees for latitude and less than 8.39 &times; 10<sup>&minus;8</sup> degrees for longitude (around 1 cm). 

Reviewer 3: "the upper boundaries of the bounding box"?

> Geopoint coordinates are always rounded down at index time. At query time, the bounding box upper boundaries are rounded down, and the lower boundaries are rounded up. Therefore, the documents with geopoints that lie on the lower and left edges of the bounding box might not be included in the results due to rounding error. On the other hand, geopoints that lie on the upper and right edges of the bounding box might be included in the results even though they are outside the boundaries. The rounding error is less than 4.20 &times; 10<sup>&minus;8</sup> degrees for latitude and less than 8.39 &times; 10<sup>&minus;8</sup> degrees for longitude (around 1 cm). 

Reviewer 2: "... due to a rounding error."

Author: "due to rounding error" is a common phrase in computer science that usually doesn't have an article. Let's ask @natebower's opinion.

Reviewer 3: Based on a little searching, it looks like "rounding error" refers to the concept, so "due to rounding error" is correct.

## Specifying the bounding box

You can specify the bounding box by providing any of the following combinations of its vertex coordinates:

- `top_left` and `bottom_right`
- `top_right` and `bottom_left`
- `top`, `left`, `bottom`, and `right`

> The following example specifies the bounding box using the `top`, `left`, `bottom`, and `right` coordinates:

Reviewer 3: The example doesn't itself specify the bounding box. "The following example shows how to specify the bounding box"?

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "filter": {
        "geo_bounding_box": {
          "point": {
            "top": 75,
            "left": 28,
            "bottom": 73,
            "right": 41            
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Request fields

Geo-bounding box queries accept the following fields.

Field | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- 
_name | String | The name of the filter. Optional.
validation_method | String | The validation method. Valid values are `IGNORE_MALFORMED` (accept geopoints with invalid coordinates), `COERCE` (try to coerce  coordinates to valid values), and `STRICT` (return an error when coordinates are invalid). Default is `STRICT`.

> type | String | Specifies how to execute the filter. Valid values are `indexed` (index  the filter) and `memory` (execute the filter in memory). Default is `memory`.

Reviewer 3: Change "execute" to "run" or "apply" (or another appropriate verb).

ignore_unmapped | Boolean | Specifies whether to ignore an unmapped field. If set to `true`, the query does not return any documents that have an unmapped field. If set to `false`, an exception is thrown when the field is unmapped. Default is `false`.

## Accepted formats

> You can specify coordinates of the bounding box vertices in any [format]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/supported-field-types/geo-point#formats) that geopoint accepts.  

Reviewer 3: The end of this sentence makes it sound as though "geopoint" is a proper noun. My brain wants it to be "that accepts geopoints." Can we revise for clarity?

Author: Reworded.

> ### Using geohash to specify the bounding box

Reviewer 3: "Using a geohash" (to match the following sentence)?

> If you use a geohash to specify the bounding box, the geohash is treated as a rectangle. The upper left vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the upper left vertex of the `top_left` geohash, and the lower right vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the lower right vertex of the `bottom_right` geohash. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you use a geohash to specify the bounding box, the geohash is treated as a rectangle. The upper-left vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the upper-left vertex of the `top_left` geohash, and the lower-right vertex of the bounding box corresponds to the lower-right vertex of the `bottom_right` geohash. 
```

> The following example uses a geohash to specify the same bounding box as the previous examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use a geohash to specify the same bounding box as in the previous examples:
```

```json
GET testindex1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": {
        "match_all": {}
      },
      "filter": {
        "geo_bounding_box": {
          "point": {
            "top_left": "ut7ftjkfxm34",
            "bottom_right": "uuvpkcprc4rc"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> To specify the bounding box that covers the whole area of a geohash, provide that geohash as both `top_left` and `bottom_right` parameters of the bounding box:

Reviewer 3: "To specify a bounding box"? "the" is correct if there is just one preexisting bounding box that covers the whole area.
